# Application-of-Machine-Learning-Models-for-Analyzing-Dhaka-Stock-Market
Stock market research occupies a high position in the field of corporate trading. Investors and traders analyze stock price data to make informed decisions about buying, selling, or holding stocks. By studying historical price patterns and trends, potential opportunities and threats in the market can be identified. Investors use stock analysis to effectively manage their portfolios. Stock price analysis is important for determining more or less the most probable value of a company's stock. Analyzing stock data can help you assess the risks associated with investing. By examining price volatility, historical performance, and correlations with other assets, investors can assess potential downside risk and make risk-adjusted decisions. Stock price analysis provides insight into market trends and investor sentiment. Automated trading systems rely on analysis of stock data to execute trades based on predefined strategies. Random forest (RF) and support vector machine (SVM) algorithms are used for the predictor investigation in this report. Random forests generally provide high accuracy for prediction tasks. Random Forest models are tolerant of noise and outliers in the data. Relationships between featured and targeted variables which are non-linear can be found out by random forest. Random Forest can handle missing values in the data without requiring imputation. This model is relatively easy to use and implement. SVM works well on datasets with a large number of features, making them suitable for tasks where the dimensionality is larger than cluster or sample size. SVM aims at maximizing the edge between different classes, which helps generalize the invisible data well. This model can transform the data used as input into a feature space allocation with high dimension using various kernel functions (linear, polynomial, radial basis functions, etc). Compared to some other machine learning models, SVMs require relatively little hyper-parameter tuning. The most important parameters are the choice of kernel function and related parameters. Due to all these aspects, this study applies machine learning techniques to the dataset taken from stock market to forecast the market trend that anyone can rely on it and to put down the possibility of risks of investment in the share or stock market.
